---
title: How was your 2020?
layout: post
---

As we near the end of a year of pandemic, it's worth looking back at these couple months and reflecting on what has happened.

I did a podcast with a dear friend of mine specifically on <a href="https://open.spotify.com/show/11KfxTr0zAHwh3rOnyJI8D?si=4--wWuwsRR23Ocw6SL6t4w">2020 retrospectives and if New Year resolutions work </a>, and wanted to add in more thoughts here; especially since we went into recording the podcast without a script, nor with any plans. They were simply topics we talk about whenever we met.

# Do you do retrospectives on the past years? 

Retrospectives are a way to look back at things that have happened, be it your year, your personal life, or some project at work that has happened. In army language, I suppose it'd be similar to an After Action Review (AAR).

In the product management field, retrospectives are a way for the team to look back at a sprint development cycle, and go through mainly 3 questions (though it would differ depending on your organisation):

1. What went well?
2. What didn't go so well?
3. What can you do to improve in the next sprint?

Personally, I find it important to take time to retrospect, so I am aware if I am going in the direction I have planned for. I actually don't have the habit of reflecting on past years until a few years back, where a friend of mine shared me her way of reflecting on her life. She would take a few days off to go to a staycation, and just think about her life. One thing that she has taught me to do is to **write my own eulogy**, which is a piece of writing meant as tribute to someone who passed.

I thought of it as an intriguing exercise; because it forces me to confront the reality of life, which is death - and I am aware it is not a comfortable topic to discuss or even think about. Writing my eulogy allowed me to think about what I want to be remembered for (a very anthropological point of view, I know)  — which helps me to better prioritise how I want to spend my time on things. Afterall, <a href="https://theprofile.substack.com/p/time-resource-hamilton">time is the most valuable resource we have.</a>

To be honest, my life priorities did shift a bit after I spent a couple hours writing my own eulogy. I was much more deliberate in spending time with people I cared about.

No doubt the pandemic has disrupted the routines and plans of people worldwide, and I know people are tired of the work from home routine. I personally am not a fan of it, since I don't get to mingle with my team mates or go for coffee walks. On a macro level, COVID has resulted in millions of deaths and economic instability for many.

COVID has definitely disrupted some of my plans, but, <i>"when one door closes, another opens"</i>. If you can't do something you've planned for, it doesn't mean you can't do a million other things in life. There's so many opportunities for a person to explore, it just depends on how much you want it. And I'm excited for my 2021.

While it wasn't a great year for most of us (or at least for me), I am grateful the year happened. It allowed me to learn, to grow, to try new things, and to break out of a routine to challenge myself just a bit more. I hated some days, where I allowed myself to be unmotivated like a sloth. But most importantly, I believe consistency is key and one shouldn't beat oneself up over a few lost days. 

And despite everything, I'm grateful for being alive.

A reminder from one of my all time favourite book Cosmos - <i>"We are like butterflies who flutter for a day and think it's forever."</i>

Life is so incredibly short and time will never be enough. On that note, I'm looking forward to watching Disney Pixar's Soul where I noticed a particular question in the movie: 

> "Is all this living really worth dying for?"

With just a few more days left for 2020, maybe you'd consider a lil retro?
